https://prod.liveshare.vsengsaas.visualstudio.com/join?3620373C16662BD6F5665CE31E3F6D31DBE1


Survey:
https://prod.liveshare.vsengsaas.visualstudio.com/join?46966EE5596BD5668038FB2D4BFD3985AA4A


REDUCING CARBON FOOTPRINT:

10 simple ways to reduce your carbon footprint:
Eating with the seasons
Carbon-clever travelling
Source Organic
Energy-saving in the house
Renewable Energy
Less but better meat
The 5 Rs
Sustainable Fashion
Zero-Waste
Understand your personal footprint

The Deep Decarbonization Pathways Project determined that in order to hold the global temperature rise to 2˚C or less, everyone on earth will need to average an annual carbon footprint of 1.87 tons by 2050. Currently, the average U.S. per capita carbon footprint is 18.3 tons. By comparison, China’s per capita carbon emissions are 8.2 tons. We all have a ways to go to get to 1.87 tons.
 
Apps:
Commute Greener!
Commute Greener! offers UK residents an easy way to measure the carbon dioxide emissions emitted during your everyday commute. Whether you are travelling by car, bus, train, bicycle, or other means of transport you can join in. This app allows you to set a target and also challenge friends, family and colleagues to reduce their CO2 emissions.
ClimateCounts
Companies are ranked on how well they address climate change so you can support the high scorers when you shop, and send messages to the low scorers urging them to take action on climate change.

AlertMe Energy Map
This app will tell you who in your area isn’t pulling their weight in reducing carbon emissions. Find out the average spend per household a year on energy in your area, how much electricity and gas is used and how much carbon this creates. Energy Map shows how your borough ranks against others in the UK for energy use and CO2 emissions.

Ecosia
Now that you’ve got yourself oriented with For Good, you’ll no doubt want to find a way to start reducing your emissions; one way to do that is by switching to the tree-planting search engine Ecosia. This search engine uses ad revenue to donate to projects that focus on planting native trees across the planet and every month creates an easy-to-understand graphic detailing its income and expenditure.
Good On You
No matter whether you buy clothes from online stores, high-end stores on the high street, or from fast-fashion retailers such as Primark, Good On You will be able to provide information about the clothes you’re buying. The main focuses of Good On You include labour conditions, animal welfare, and environmental impact. Brands receive an overall rating out of five stars giving you an idea of how well the brand scores in the three categories.
Olio
According to a study, around a third of food worldwide is wasted before it reaches the plate. It says that food is thrown at all stages from harvesting, while it's being stored, transported, and by shops that can no longer sell the food after the sell-by date. The final app recommendation is Olio, an app designed to help you reduce waste – but primarily food waste.
With Olio, you can see what food other people are giving away and arrange to collect it, or, offer up any food that you no longer want. If you’re lucky and live near a store that uses Olio such as Pret a Manger in the UK, then during certain times of the day you’re able to go and collect baguettes or sandwiches that are about to be thrown away – the best part is that these sandwiches that would set you back a few pounds have to be given away at no cost, according to Olio’s rules.
 
The GoodGuide is a guide to environmental shopping, but it's not meant to make you run screaming just because you see "chemical" in the ingredients list. It's more nuanced; letting you scan a product's barcode or search it, then giving rankings based on health, environment, and societal impact. It can even show up more info on the parent company's environmental policies. It's only available in the U.S., for now.
 
Commute Greener does what its name suggests, giving you tailored suggestions for your daily commute to make it as low-emission as possible — from the most efficient map routes to ride-sharing suggestions in your area. It's also meant to make you feel mildly competitive, accumulating badges and rewards as you become as green as possible. It's the commuting Olympics.
Rippl has the potential to be incredibly annoying. It's a curated, personalized reminder app to give you tips and tricks on greening your lifestyle, and could easily sound like your nagging (very eco-conscious) mother. That it doesn't, and gently encourages you to incorporate small changes into your routine every day instead, actually makes it pretty useful.
Carma is a carpooling app for various parts of the U.S. that helps you find people to carpool with and makes the whole begging-for-gas-money thing redundant: every member of the pool pays 20 cents per mile using credit on their app accounts, and most of that goes to the driver. You can find strangers along your route or use it to coordinate trips with friends.
 
Leafully isn't designed to be complicated: it's an energy use app that alerts you when your energy consumption is going overboard and needs to be pulled back. It can only be used on four energy utility companies at the moment, but if you're one of their members you can use it to monitor your consumption — and, cutely, it measures your energy in trees.
 
Climate Counts is an activism and advocacy app. Its database contains most of the world's big companies, and it ranks them according to their work on climate change. Are they addressing it, ignoring it, releasing details on how green their production is, blocking environmental laws in their country? Climate Counts has the answers — the implication being that, if a company scores low, you should vote with your feet, and your money.
Joulebug takes the whole making-life-sustainable thing and shapes it into a game. Every suggestion about an eco-friendly habit or practice that becomes a reality is a way to earn Pins, Trophies, Badges, and other assorted goodies. You can compete with people in your neighborhood for greener-than-thou status — but you've got to tell the app whenever you take its advice.
Like Commute Greener, this is an app that tries to minimize the environmental impact of your trips — but GTC, one of Commute Greener's partners, is focused on international tourism. If you want to jump on a jet plane, this is the app to tap to make sure your worldwide travel is as green as possible. Plus, they're linking up with ecotourism businesses to guarantee your holiday's sustainable, too.
Sources of emissions
FOOD
Food accounts for 10-30% of a household’s carbon footprint, typically a higher portion in lower-income households.2 Production accounts for 68% of food emissions, while transportation accounts for 5%.4
Food production emissions consist mainly of CO2, N2O, and CH4, which result primarily from agricultural practices.5
Meat products have larger carbon footprints per calorie than grain or vegetable products because of the inefficient conversion of plant to animal energy and due to CH4 released from manure management and enteric fermentation in ruminants.5
Ruminants such as cattle, sheep, and goats produced 179 million metric tons (mmt) CO2e of enteric methane in the U.S. in 2019.6
In an average U.S. household, eliminating the transport of food for one year could save the GHG equivalent of driving 1,000 miles, while shifting to a vegetarian meal one day a week could save the equivalent of driving 1,160 miles.5
A vegetarian diet greatly reduces an individual’s carbon footprint, but switching to less carbon intensive meats can have a major impact as well. For example, beef's GHG emissions per kilogram are 7.2 times greater than those of chicken.7
HOUSEHOLD EMISSIONS
For each kWh generated in the U.S., an average of 0.889 pounds of CO2e is released at the power plant.8 Coal releases 2.2 pounds, petroleum releases 1.9 pounds, and natural gas releases 0.9 pounds. Nuclear, solar, wind, and hydroelectric release no CO2 when they produce electricity, but emissions are released during upstream production activities (e.g., solar cells, nuclear fuels, cement production).6,9
Residential electricity use in 2019 emitted 598.8 mmt CO2e, 9.1% of the U.S. total.6
Space heating and cooling are estimated to account for 42% of energy in U.S. homes in 2021.10
Refrigerators are one of the largest users of household appliance energy; in 2019, an average of 672 lbs CO2e per household was due to refrigeration.8,11
26 mmt CO2e are released in the U.S. each year from washing clothes. Switching to a cold water wash once per week can reduce household GHG emissions by over 70 lbs annually.12
PERSONAL TRANSPORTATION
U.S. fuel economy (mpg) declined by 12% from 1988-2004, then improved by 29% from 2004-2019, reaching an average of 24.9 mpg in 2019.14 Annual per capita miles driven increased 9% since 1995 to 9,919 miles in 2018.15
Cars and light trucks emitted 1.1 billion metric tons CO2e or 17% of the total U.S. GHG emissions in 2019.6
Of the roughly 66,000 lbs CO2e emitted over the lifetime of an internal combustion engine car (assuming 93,000 miles driven), 84% come from the use phase.16
Gasoline releases 19.6 pounds of CO2 per gallon when burned, compared to 22.4 pounds per gallon for diesel.17 However, diesel has 11% more BTU per gallon, which improves its fuel economy.18
The average passenger car emits 0.78 pounds of CO2 per mile driven.14
Automobile fuel economy can improve 7-14% by simply observing the speed limit. Every 5 mph increase in vehicle speed over 50 mph is equivalent to paying an extra $0.20-$0.40 per gallon.19
Commercial aircraft GHG emissions vary according to aircraft type, trip length, occupancy rates, and passenger and cargo weight, and totaled 135.4 mmt CO2e in 2019.6 In 2019, the average domestic commercial flight emitted 0.39 pounds of CO2e per passenger mile.6,20
Domestic air travel fuel efficiency (passenger miles/gallon) rose by 115% from 1990 to 2019, largely due to increased occupancy.20 Emissions per domestic passenger-mile decreased 45% from 1990-2019, due to increased occupancy and fuel efficiency.6,20
In 2019, rail transportation emitted 40.8 mmt CO2e, accounting for 2% of transportation emissions in the U.S.6
IDEAS:
App to track c02 footprint (maybe focusing on specifics like energy consumption/travel).
App to track food based on how seasonal it is to reduce food miles and to reduce food waste
App that can compare your co2 footprint to averages and provide information on how you can lower it.
App which organises and collates events and news from your area relating to climate change action to provide users with the latest topics for it.
App that can provide a chat / collaboration/ event organisation space for users to use to connect with people who also care for the environment.
SURVEY DATA:
https://docs.cdn.yougov.com/o7gbkrno79/Internal_EnvironmentTracker_210829_Wave1_W.pdf

Believe governments and businesses have the greatest impact on climate change.
Not too late




FINAL BRIEF/APP IDEA:
We want to design a prototype for an app to track a user’s total carbon dioxide footprint and keep this under a daily limit of 5.2kg (as prescribed by The Deep Decarbonization Pathway project) in order to limit climate change to 2 degrees or less. The user would log their main daily activities (i.e electricity consumption, transportation and food miles/waste). They would earn badges and climb levels as they hit the limit or under consecutively and would be able to compete against others in their local/regional area for badges and levels.

def transportationEmissions():
    #25% of total emissions, The average passenger car emits 0.78 pounds of CO2 per mile driven.
    
