Aar: Hi everyone, My name is Aarya and I am the co-project manager and lead developer of Florere.

Ayu: Hi everyone I’m Ayuub and I'm also the co-project manager and lead developer of Florere, an app we created for climate conscious users to be the change they wish to see.

Slide 2

Aar: Well, clearly there’s a problem here. Countless protests, natural disasters and global summits have flooded our news screens  and we know climate change is a huge problem that could cripple our Earth unless addressed immediately. We need to take action.

Slide 3

Aar: We wanted to enable users to make small changes in their own lives in order to create a wide-scale global impact. But how did we start? First we explored other solutions already on the app store. Then, we made a survey which we distributed to a large sample of varying ages. They all had a similar consensus, they wanted to make a change, but didn’t know how. 

Slide 4

When we asked about the best way of slowing climate change down, one user summed up what we were all thinking pretty well: “Thats a deep q ngl”

Slide 5

Ayu: Enter Florere. 

Slide 6

Ayu: We help all climate- conscious users track and offset their daily carbon emissions by making it a game in which they earn badges or points and compete against others in their local community for consistent target emissions. For example, for a week of consistent emissions the user would earn an eco-warrior badge. This would help provide a more user friendly interface for environmentalists looking to make a change in the world through systems that would guide the user and provide support whenever they needed it.

Slide 7

Ayu: As a small team, we began prototyping a section of our app in python that would enable a user to pick from the main categories of food, transport and emissions as well as an AI chatbot to provide weekly score feedback.

Slide 8

Ayu: There would be a free version for users with basic emission tracking systems, AI chatbot features and info on nearby events. The premium subscription provides insights and a competition element . We would also lease adapted versions to councils and governments to roll out within their own supply chains and later, harness anonymous user data with the user’s permission to sell to large organisations.

Slide 9

Aar: To get to market, we’d first continue testing and developing the app and using social media marketing and schools to roll it out. When we have a substantial user base, we’d provide a version to councils, governments and companies.

Slide 10

Aar: However we appreciate that all apps and AI must be sensitive to users, we’d have features like: a guest mode, asking for permission to share data, and programming a friendly chatbot to gently guide the user through the process of keeping their emissions at the right level with advice and daily notifications.

Slide 11 + 12

Ayu: Thank you for listening to our pitch and we hope you continue to follow our journey with Florere.
